The Differently Abled Cricket Council of India (DCCI) and Rajasthan Royals (RR) on Sunday felicitated the Indian Men’s Physical Disability Cricket Team for their exceptional series win against England earlier this year. The ceremony took place at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur which saw Ranjit Barthakur (Chairperson, Rajasthan Royals), Jake Lush McCrum (Chief Executive Officer, Rajasthan Royals), Ravikant Chauhan (Secretary, DCCI) and Abhai Pratap Singh (Joint Secretary, DCCI) were among the dignitaries present on the occasion who presented members of the Indian Men’s Physical Disability Team with mementos and a cash reward of ₹11 lacs.
Captain Vikrant Ravindra Keni, Vice Captain Wasim Iqbal, Ravindra Gopinath Sante, Jaffar Amin Bhat, Aamir Hassan, Majid Ah Magray, Lokesh Marghade, Pawan Kumar, Duvvuru Akhil Reddy, Yogender Singh and other members of the team were in attendance, and have also been invited by the Royals to attend their home match against Mumbai Indians on Monday evening at the Sawai Mansingh Stadium in Jaipur.
Notably, the franchise has been extending support to the Differently Abled Cricket Council of India (DCCI) through various initiatives, and earlier this year, hosted the Indian Men’s Physical Disability Team for a comprehensive training camp at the Royals’ High Performance Center in Nagpur from 14th to 20th January 2024, post which the team had registered a 3-1 series win against England in their first-ever T20I bilateral series. Ranjit Barthakur, Chairperson, Rajasthan Royals, said, “It is a privilege for us to be working with the DCCI to make an impact in the lives of these talented players. Their work ethic and commitment is inspirational, and we are delighted to see that their hard work is paying dividends. This is just the start for them, and we are hoping this achievement will get the entire world to notice them.”
Jake Lush McCrum, Chief Executive Officer, Rajasthan Royals commented on the occasion, “It was very special to have hosted the Indian Men’s Physical Disability team at our High Performance Center in Nagpur, and to see them win the series against England. Their commitment, dedication, discipline and talent has inspired our entire team and support staff, and we are looking forward to continue enabling more such achievements for them.” Romi Bhinder, Head of High Performance Operations, Rajasthan Royals, added, “We are so privileged that we were able to host the entire Indian Men’s Physical Disability Team at the High Performance Center in Nagpur as they prepared for their T20I series against England earlier this year. This association with the DCCI and their athletes is unique in its own way, and we are looking forward to continuing supporting the DCCI and its athletes.” Mr. Ravi Kant Chauhan, Secretary, DCCI, extended his heartfelt appreciation, “We are grateful to the Rajasthan Royals for their remarkable efforts in facilitating a comprehensive training camp for the Indian Physical Disability Cricket Team from 14th to 20th January 2024. Under the leadership of Mr. Barthakur, the Rajasthan Royals provided invaluable resources and assistance to ensure that the camp was a resounding success. This gesture of support not only reflects the team’s commitment to promoting inclusivity in sports but also underscores their dedication to fostering an environment that nurtures equal opportunities for persons with disabilities.”
Chauhan added, “It is our sincere hope that the commendable actions of Mr. Barthakur and the Rajasthan Royals will inspire other franchises within the IPL to follow suit and embrace the cause of differently abled cricket with similar enthusiasm. By doing so, they can collectively contribute to the creation of a more inclusive and equitable sporting landscape in our country.”