GUWAHATI: “Our decision on Miya’s vote has not changed. Earlier I said we do not need Miya’s vote. This decision was not changed. But I go to minority-dominated areas because as a chief minister, I have to go to every place. If I do not go to any place, it will be thought that that place is not within Assam,” Chief Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said while talking to The Assam Rising exclusively here on Sunday.
Sarma who earlier said that the BJP need not Miya vote, was seen in some char areas of the state where he sought votes from minority communities.

“I did not go there stating we need Miya’s vote or not. We are speaking about our commitments and developments in our regime. As a chief minister, I have to cover the entire Assam. If I go to some parts and leave some parts, it will be thought that these parts are not of Assam,” Sarma said.
“But we did not change our decision. Our decision is the same. Somebody will vote for us or somebody will not,” Sarma also said.
Answering to a question regarding lack of Opposition parties present in General Election 2024 in Assam
“There is also opposition in this election. We can’t ignore it. There will be contests in Dhubri, Nagaon, Karimganj and even a bit in Kokrajhar. Earlier there were neck to neck but now 10/11 ls vibes for BJP easily. But I don’t want to say how many seats we will get. Let the Election Commission will announce the results on June 4,” he also said.
“Entire India is voting to make Narendra Modi PM for the third time. Assam is not far away from it. The people vote BJP to make India proper under PM Modi, Assam will also vote BJP to make it prosper,” he further said.
“There is a large number of participating women and youth in Assam. They have been with BJP in 2019, 2021 and this time also,” the chief minister said.
“I attended more than 200 meetings since January for land patta distribution, Vikash Yatra, Vijay Sankalpaa Yatra. From Mach 22 to May 5, I attended more than 12o meetings, rallies in 105 constituencies. I have interacted with many people, women and youth during these visits. We talk on many issues,” the Chief Minister said.
The Chief Minister said he would take part in some national-level campaign after the third phase of elections in the state. Sarma will go to West Bengal on May 8 to campaign for his party.