In a one-of-its-kind initiative, a 11 kv HT dedicated feeder was inaugurated by Smt. Nandita Gorlosa, Minister for Power, Cooperation, Mines, Minerals, Indigenous and Tribal Faith and Culture Department, Government of Assam at Cotton University today. With this dedicated power line, the varsity will now have access to uninterrupted power supply that will promote academic and research activities among the teaching and student communities.
A meeting was held at the Homen Borgohain Conference Hall in the University premises prior to the inauguration of the dedicated feeder in the presence of University officials, teachers, students and staff.
Addressing the gathering, the Power Minister, also an alumnus of Cotton College, said that the Government of Assam plans to give dedicated power lines to other educational institutions and hospitals in the coming days. One of the key agendas of the State government is to provide solar panels in colleges and universities, especially in the metro cities of Assam. She also praised the efforts of the Assam Power Distribution Company Limited (APDCL) for their initiatives. She welcomed all kinds of suggestions from faculty and students and emphasized that public participation is vital in giving back to the public. She also applauded the achievements of the sportspersons from Assam in the recently held National Games in Goa.
The Vice Chancellor of Cotton University Prof Ramesh Chandra Deka shared that the institution had approached the Power minister in November, 2022 with a request to install a dedicated power line at the varsity. He thanked the Minister for sanctioning the power line and also thanked the APDCL and the varsity’s engineering cell for completion of the work within a year’s time. “Electricity is considered to be the life-blood of academic institutions and a dedicated power line will definitely help in the growth of the University as academic and research activities will continue unhindered”, he added.
Earlier, the Registrar of Cotton University, Dr Arindam Garg welcomed the Minister and all the officials of the APDCL and Cotton University, members of the faculty, staff and students and the media personnels present on the occasion. The vote of thanks was delivered by Prof Arup Hazarika, Head, Department of Zoology.