The Royals are making a #PinkPromise through their match against RCB on 6th April – to amplify and support women-led transformation in Rajasthan, and have announced their commitment to powering 6 homes for every 6 six that is hit by either team during the match.
With the core objective of amplifying and supporting women-led transformation in Rajasthan, IPL franchise Rajasthan Royals today announced their commitment to powering 6 homes with solar power for every 6 that is hit by both the teams during their #PinkPromise match against the Royal Challengers Bengaluru on Saturday in Jaipur. The announcement comes on the back of the Royals having dedicated their entire matchday kits to the cause of continuing to enable the empowered women of Rajasthan and of India through their social equity arm – the Royal Rajasthan Foundation (RRF). The team, which currently sits on the 2nd spot on the points table, level on points with KKR, will be wearing special all-pink matchday kits which also have names of some of RRF’s women beneficiaries emblazoned on them as a mark of respect.
The RRF was established in 2019 with the vision of ‘Aurat Hai Toh Bharat Hai’ and has since worked on enabling opportunities for the empowered women of Rajasthan through equitable access to water, livelihoods, clean energy and mental health. Solar power becomes a key element in the use of clean energy as it provides for a cleaner and sustainable environment, and creates more opportunities for livelihoods. Hence, the Royals have decided to power as many homes as possible through the #PinkPromise match. To continue supporting women-led transformation in Rajasthan, the inaugural champions had also announced that all proceeds from the sales of the special all-pink matchday jerseys will be donated to the Foundation, along with the commitment to donate ₹100 for every ticket that is purchased for the #PinkPromise match. The inaugural champions have also revealed a host of activities that will be organised during the matchday, starting with homegrown Rajasthani women cultural artists and entertainers performing at the iconic Sawai Mansingh Stadium before the match, to a Rajasthani sand artist crafting solar panel-led sand art, to the presence of women beneficiaries from the Foundation and inspirational women from Rajasthan who have made the state proud in various walks of life, to the engaging AR player booth outside on the stadium’s concourse – fans will have the opportunity to celebrate and be part of the Royals’ #PinkPromise.
Jake Lush McCrum, Chief Executive Officer, Rajasthan Royals, said, “With the vision of ‘Aurat Hai Toh Bharat Hai’, the Foundation has positively impacted the lives of more than 15 million women in Rajasthan over the last five years, and our ambition is to create a rural transformation model which can be replicated and scaled up in not just other parts of Rajasthan, but also across the country. We are incredibly motivated by the awareness this match can provide and the funds that will be raised for this important project.” The Royals were also seen spending time visiting Sursingpura village on Wednesday afternoon to interact with the Foundation’s inspirational women who are leading transformation in the Sambhar block. The entire squad along with their support staff took part in a host of activities which were aimed at throwing light on the current style of living of the community, and also showcase the work that the team’s Foundation has executed on ground to enable the empowered women of Rajasthan.
The Royals will hope to continue their steady start to the 2024 season when they take on RCB on Saturday, and will have an added motivation to clear the boundaries given the franchise’s commitment to powering homes in their home state. The Royals have so far scored 24 sixes in their three matches and will hope to score many more as they take the field on Saturday.