The Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad Assam Pradesh released posters, stickers, and leaflets to promote 100% voting in the Lok Sabha elections. During the release, State Secretary Shri Herold Mohan stated that the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad is committed to positioning India as the world leader (Vishwa Guru) by 2047. The ABVP will organize voter awareness campaigns for new voters on various campuses. Throughout Assam, ABVP students will conduct over two thousand meetings and engage with millions of new voters. They will run an intensive contact campaign among the new voters to promote voter awareness for the betterment of the country’s bright future and to establish India as a world leader.
Today, India’s prestige has grown worldwide. It has emerged as the fifth-largest economic power in the world. The youth of India are not just job seekers but are also becoming entrepreneurs through startups. No country can dare to look down upon India. The country has also become strong in terms of national security. There is rapid development in the basic infrastructure of the country, benefiting every individual in society, whether it be roads, electricity, water, health, or education. As partners in the country’s development, today’s youth should vote 100%. Only a strong and stable government can maintain the unity and integrity of India. The need for 100% voting is also to strengthen India’s traditions, culture, and centralised system in the future ahead. The ABVP is striving for Bharat-centric education. Despite the introduction of the National Education Policy in the country, the education sector must fully play its role for implementation.

,
Recently, the birthplace of Shrimanta Shankardev, Batadrava Than in Assam, which had been illegally occupied by Bangladeshi Muslims, has been vacated. In the future, all symbols of Assamese and Indian tradition should be freed from the clutches of these illegal intruders, and a grand religious site should be constructed there. The largest statue in the world, of Mahavir Lachit Borphukan, has been installed in Jorhat. On the 400th birth anniversary of Lachit Borphukan, his valor has been brought to the national scene. Just as the Congress student organization (NSUI) along with the AASU, insulted and desecrated the image of Goddess Kamakhya and Lachit Borphukan by kicking it and burning banners inside Guwahati University, students and youth should vote against such forces and be inspired to vote more.